Migrate Extending Mantid With Python To User Docs (#31475)
mantidproject/mantid: docs/source/tutorials/extending_mantid_with_python/solutions_to_the_exercises/06_emwp_sol.rst

.. code-block:: python

    from mantid.api import *
    import math
    import numpy as np

    INVERSE_PI = 1.0/math.pi

    class LorentzWithDeriv(IFunction1D):

        def init(self):
            # Tell Mantid about the 3 parameters that are involved in the function
            self.declareParameter("Amplitude", 1.0)
            self.declareParameter("PeakCentre", 0.0)
            self.declareParameter("Gamma", 0.1)

        def function1D(self, xvals):
            # xvals is a 1D numpy array that contains the X values for the defined fitting range.

            # Get the current values of the 3 parameters
            amp = self.getParameterValue("Amplitude") # Access current value during the fit
            half_gamma = 0.5*self.getParameterValue("Gamma")
            peak_centre = self.getParameterValue("PeakCentre")

            denom = (xvals - peak_centre)**2 + half_gamma*half_gamma
            return amp*INVERSE_PI*half_gamma/denom

        def functionDeriv1D(self, xvals, out):
            # xvals is a 1D numpy array that contains the X values for the defined fitting range.
            # out is a Jacobian matrix object. Mantid expects the partial derivatives

>             # w.r.t the paramaters and x values to be stored here

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            # w.r.t the parameters and x values to be stored here
```

                out.set(i, 2, dfdg)

    # Register with Mantid
    FunctionFactory.subscribe(LorentzWithDeriv)

Peak Function
=============

The aim of this exercise is to implement a peak fit function function to fit.

.. code-block:: python

    from mantid.api import *
    import numpy as np
    import math

    INVERSE_PI = 1.0/math.pi

    class LorentzPeak(IPeakFunction):

        def init(self):
            # Tell Mantid about the 3 parameters that are involved in the function
            self.declareParameter("Amplitude", 0.0)
            self.declareParameter("PeakCentre", 0.0)
            self.declareParameter("Gamma", 0.0)

        def functionLocal(self, xvals):
            # xvals is a 1D numpy array that contains the X values for the defined fitting range.
            half_gamma = 0.5*self.getParameterValue("Gamma")
            denom = (xvals - self.getParameterValue("PeakCentre"))**2 + half_gamma*half_gamma
            return self.getParameterValue("Amplitude")*INVERSE_PI*half_gamma/denom

        def functionDerivLocal(self, xvals, out):
            # xvals is a 1D numpy array that contains the X values for the defined fitting range.

>             # out is a Jacobian matrix object. Mantid expects the partial deriviatives
>             # w.r.t the paramaters and x values to be stored here

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            # out is a Jacobian matrix object. Mantid expects the partial derivatives
            # w.r.t the parameters and x values to be stored here
```
